## ページ 1

Accepted: 13 August 2023
DOI: 10.1002/lsm.23719
C L I N I C A L R E P O R T
Needleless laser injector versus needle injection for skin
enhancement and rejuvenation effect of dermal ﬁller
Hye Sung Han MD1,2
|
Bo Ri Kim MD, PhD3
|
Minjae Kim MD3,4
|
Jung‐Im Na MD, PhD3,4
|
Suk Bae Seo MD5
|
Chang‐Hun Huh MD, PhD3,4
|
Jung‐Won Shin MD, PhD3,4
1Department of Dermatology, Chung‐Ang
University Gwangmyeong Hospital,
Gwangmyeong, Gyeonggi‐do, Korea
2Department of Dermatology, Chung‐Ang
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea
3Department of Dermatology, Seoul National
University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam,
Korea
4Department of Dermatology, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea
5SeoAhSong Dermatologic Clinic, Seoul,
Korea
Correspondence
Jung‐Won Shin, MD, PhD, Department of
Dermatology, Seoul National University
Bundang Hospital, 82 Gumi‐Ro 173 Beon‐Gil,
Seongnam, Gyeonggi 13620, Korea.
Email: spellbound00@hanmail.net
Abstract
Background and Objectives: A needleless laser‐induced microjet injector is a novel
transdermal drug delivery system that can rapidly inject a very small and precise
drug dose into the skin with minimal pain and downtime. In this study, we aimed
to compare the laser‐induced microjet injection versus needle injection of
polylactic acid/hyaluronic acid ﬁller for skin enhancement and rejuvenation.
Patients
and
Methods:
A
24‐week
prospective,
single‐center,
assessor‐
blinded, randomized, split‐face study was conducted. The enrolled patients
underwent one treatment session of dermal ﬁller injection using a laser‐induced
microjet injector on one half of the face or a traditional needle injection on the
other half of the face. Evaluation was conducted at baseline before treatment and
at 4, 12, and 24 weeks after treatment.
Results: A single treatment of ﬁller injection with a laser‐induced microjet injector
resulted in similar improvements in skin hydration and elasticity as a single
treatment of ﬁller injection by using manual needle injection, with reduced pain,
side effects, and decreased treatment time.
Conclusions: Laser‐induced microjet injector enabled not only the application of a
controlled dose and ﬁller depth but also even distribution, improved clinical
efﬁcacy, reduced pain and side effects, and sufﬁcient time for clinicians to perform
treatment.
K E Y W O R D S
dermal ﬁller, hyaluronic acid, needleless injector, needleless laser injector, polylactic acid, skin
rejuvenation
INTRODUCTION
Recently, there has been increasing interest in the use of
ﬁllers as mesotherapy to restore healthy, youthful, and
moisturized skin beyond its traditional use for the
correction of deep wrinkles or for the replacement of
volume.1 Traditional ﬁller mesotherapy is performed
manually by using a syringe with a needle and by using
the multipuncture/micropapule technique, which allows
small amounts of ﬁller to be injected into the superﬁcial
dermis.2,3 It is the simplest and most economical method,
but it has drawbacks such as pain during procedures,
needle fear/phobia, possibility of irregular and inaccurate
injections, and long treatment time.4
To overcome these disadvantages, mesogun multineedle
injectors or needleless jet injectors that use compressed
springs or gas (pneumatic pressure) as an energy source have
been used.1 Although these methods allow for more stable
and accurate injections than manual injection techniques,
there are still limitations owing to the restricted adjustability
of the amount of input energy during the injection of the
target material. Therefore, they still have drawbacks such as
Lasers Surg Med. 2023;1–8.
wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/lsm
© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
|
1
Dr. Hye Sung Han and Dr. Bo Ri Kim contributed equally to this work as coﬁrst authors.
Dr. Chang‐Hun Huh and Dr. Jung‐Won Shin contributed equally to this work as corresponding authors.


## ページ 2

limited range of jet volume that can be injected, low injection
velocity, inaccurate injection depth, signiﬁcant pain due to
tissue dissection, and long downtime (Online Supporting
Information: Table S1).1,5–7
There
has
been
growing
interest
on
needleless
injectors that use laser energy.8,9 Mirajet (JSK Biomed)
was the ﬁrst laser‐induced microjet injector to acquire
Conformité Européenne certiﬁcation for medical devices
in the European Union, and this device uses an Er:YAG
laser that generates vapor bubbles to generate pressure
energy.4 It is composed of two chambers: an upper
chamber ﬁlled with water and a lower chamber ﬁlled with
injection material. When the laser is focused and blasted
in the upper chamber, the pressure generated by the
explosion pushes the membrane downward, thus leading
to the microjet injection of the drug (Figure 1). The main
advantage of this laser‐induced microjet injector is the
precise control over energy deposition, thus allowing for
the accurate injection of a very small volume (0.0003 mL)
into
a
precise
depth
(superﬁcial
to
deep
dermis).
Furthermore, injections can be performed at a rapid
rate of 40 shots per second with minimal pain.5,10
One study used Mirajet to inject polylactic acid
(PLA)/hyaluronic acid (HA) composite ﬁller into ﬁve
Korean cadavers and observed that PLA/HA ﬁller
substances were localized precisely and uniformly at the
same level of the papillary dermis.4 However, no clinical
study has been conducted on living humans for the
evaluation of the skin rejuvenating effect after PLA/HA
injection by using this laser‐induced microjet injector. In
the current study, we conducted a single‐center, random-
ized, double‐blind, split‐face clinical study to compare
the laser‐induced microjet injection versus needle injec-
tion of PLA/HA ﬁller to achieve skin enhancement and
rejuvenating effects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Study design and patient enrollment
A 24‐week prospective, single‐center, assessor‐blinded,
randomized, split‐face study was conducted to compare
the clinical efﬁcacy and safety of needless laser injectors
versus needle injections for the antiaging effect of dermal
ﬁllers (ClinicalTrials.gov Identiﬁer: NCT05685667). This
study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital (IRB No.
B‐2105‐682‐003) and was performed in conformance with
the CONSORT 2010 guidelines.
Adults aged 25−60 years old who wanted to enhance
or rejuvenate their skin were recruited. The exclusion
criteria included subjects with history of skin rejuvena-
tion treatment (including ﬁller, botulinum toxin, lasers,
chemical peeling, and topical retinoid) within 6 month
before the start of the study, subjects who plans to
undergo skin rejuvenation treatment during the study,
who is pregnant or breastfeeding, who is allergic to PLA
or HA (Online Supporting Information: Table S2). The
enrolled patients underwent one treatment session of
dermal ﬁller injection using a laser‐induced microjet
injector on one half of the face or a traditional needle
injection on the other half of the face. Evaluation was
conducted at baseline before treatment and at 4, 12, and
24 weeks after treatment. The design of this randomized
clinical
trial
is
shown
in
Online
Supporting
Information: Figure 1.
Randomization and blinding
A random number table was used for randomization.
Half of each patient's face was randomized consecutively
to either the laser‐induced microjet injection group
(experimental group) or the needle injection group
(control group) at the time of enrollment. The left/right
assignment was sealed in a nontransparent envelope. The
treating dermatologist (J. W. S.) was not blinded or
involved in the evaluation.
Preparation of PLA/HA composite dermal ﬁller
A PLA/HA ﬁller (Juve Look; Vaim Medical) was used.
One vial containing 42.5 mg of PLA and 7.5 mg of HA
FIGURE 1
Laser‐induced microjet injector consisting of a pressure
source, injection chamber, and nozzle. A microjet is generated by a
focused laser beam that expands the vapor bubbles, and the injection
substance is injected into the skin by the pressure produced by the
vapor bubbles.
2
|
NEEDLESS LASER INJECTOR VERSUS NEEDLE INJECTION


## ページ 3

was diluted with 8 cc of normal saline and vortexed for
2 h before use.
Treatment protocol
All patients underwent a single treatment session. Before
treatment, a topical anesthetic cream was applied on the
entire face of each subject. After gently cleansing the
face, the patients wore protective eyeshields, and patients
were injected with a PLA/HA composite dermal ﬁller by
using a laser‐induced microjet injector on one half of the
face and a traditional method of needle injection on the
other half of the face.
The laser‐induced microjet injector was set with a
nozzle size of 250 μm, frequency of 20 Hz, and output
energy of 80 mJ for treatment in the periorbital area and
100 mJ for treatment in other areas. The laser setting was
based on the previous unpublished data that evaluated
histology of living human skin after PLA/HA injection
using laser‐induced microjet injector (Online Supporting
Information: Figure 2). To summarize brieﬂy, PLA/HA
injection with laser setting with nozzle size of 200 μm and
the output energy of 80 mJ on the temple area resulted in
PLA/HA ﬁller deposition in the upper dermis. The
injection was performed with two to three passes across
the face until a total of 2 cc of diluted PLA/HA solution
was completely injected. In the traditional method of
needle injection, intradermal injection using the multi-
puncture/micropapule technique using 1 cc syringe with
31 G needle was used. A series of injections (0.5−1 cm
apart) was performed on one half of the face so that a
total of 2 cc of diluted PLA/HA solution was injected.
Clinical outcome assessment
Evaluation was conducted at baseline before treatment and
at 4, 12, and 24 weeks after treatment. The primary
outcomes were on‐site biophysical measurements, including
skin hydration and elasticity. The biophysical parameters
were measured by a blinded experienced dermatologist (B.
R. K.). Skin hydration was measured using a Corneometer®
CM 825 (Courage & Khazak), and skin elasticity was
measured using a Cutometer® MPA 580 (Courage &
Khazaka) at 2 cm below the point where the horizontal line
starting from the nasal ala and the vertical line starting from
the midpupil met. Among the various parameters of the
Cutometer® MPA 580, R2 (gross elasticity) and R8 (ability
of the skin to return to the normal state) were measured. The
patients were instructed not to apply any cosmetics and not
to wash their faces within 2h before the measurements. All
measurements were performed by the same investigator in a
room with constant temperature (23°C) and humidity (45%).
The secondary outcomes were the objective measure-
ments of skin surface topography analyzed by 3D
photogrammetry and the patient's subjective evaluation
of satisfaction with the enhancement of the skin, pain
during treatment, and degree of recovery after treatment.
To objectively measure the parameters related to skin
aging, such as skin texture, wrinkles, and pores, the 3D
images of each patient's lateral canthus area were
obtained using an Antera 3D® camera (Miravex Limited)
at every visit. The images were then analyzed using
dedicated software with a small ﬁlter suitable for the
analysis of ﬁne lines and pores. Objective measurements
for skin aging included texture‐related parameters (Ra,
Rq, and Rt), wrinkle‐related parameters (indentation
index and maximum depth), and pore‐related parameters
(area and volume). The detailed explanations of each
parameter
are
provided
in
Online
Supporting
Information: Table S3.
Patient satisfaction scores for antiaging effects were
evaluated from 1 (extremely dissatisﬁed) to 7 (extremely
satisﬁed) at 4, 12, and 24 weeks after treatment and were
compared with the scores before treatment. Pain during
treatment was measured using a visual analog scale
(VAS) from 0 (none) to 10 (worst). The degree of
recovery on the third day after treatment was divided
into erythema, bruises, and crust (marks at the injection
site), and each was measured by VAS. Adverse events
related to the procedure were assessed by one investiga-
tor (B. R. K.), and patients were required to report any
adverse events during the treatment and follow‐up
periods.
Sample size and statistical analysis
A sample size of 33 patients (33 pairs) was sufﬁcient to
detect a clinically important difference of 5.5 in skin
hydration (arbitrary unit) between paired groups, assum-
ing a standard deviation (SD) of 10 by using a paired
t‐test with 80% power and 5% level of signiﬁcance.11 Our
initial estimate of the sample size assumed a dropout rate
of 15%.
Categorical variables are presented as frequencies and
proportions, whereas continuous variables are presented
as means and SDs. Each measurement at the follow‐up
visit was compared with the baseline value by using the
Wilcoxon signed‐rank test. An independent samples
t‐test was used to compare the average values of the
experimental group versus control group at each follow‐
up visit. The results are expressed as mean ± SD, and
p < 0.05 was considered statistically signiﬁcant. IBM
SPSS version 20 (IBM Corp.) was used to analyze
all data.
RESULTS
A total of 57 patients were screened for eligibility.
Twenty‐four patients were excluded because they refused
to participate (n = 3), did not meet the inclusion criteria
HAN ET AL.
|
3


## ページ 4

(n = 5), or did not meet the exclusion criteria (n = 16). In
total, 33 patients met the eligibility criteria and were
randomized, among which 32 completed the study. One
patient dropped out during the follow‐up period because
of difﬁculties in following the visit schedule.
Baseline characteristics and treatment time
Table 1 presents the patients' basic characteristics. The
mean patient age was 38.44 ± 5.39 years (range: 27−50
years), and 87.5% of the study population was female.
Most patients (96.9%) had Fitzpatrick skin type III or
IV, whereas 3.1% of patients had type II skin.
Changes in biophysical measurements: Skin
hydration and elasticity
Compared with the baseline, the average skin hydration
signiﬁcantly increased in the experimental group at
Weeks 4, 12, and 24. In the control group, skin hydration
also
increased
after
treatment
compared
with
the
baseline, but the changes were not statistically signiﬁcant
(Figure 2A). In both groups, skin hydration increased
over Weeks 4 and 12, but slowly decreased at Week 24.
However, the values at Week 24 were still higher than
those at baseline in both groups.
Among the values related to the measured skin
elasticity, the R2 value signiﬁcantly increased in the
experimental group at Weeks 4, 12, and 24 compared
with the baseline. In the control group, the R2 value also
increased over time, but the changes were statistically
signiﬁcant only at Weeks 12 and 24 (Figure 2B).
Similarly, the R8 value signiﬁcantly increased in the
experimental group at Weeks 4, 12, and 24 compared
with that at baseline. In the control group, the R8 value
also increased over time, but the changes were statisti-
cally signiﬁcant only at Weeks 12 and 24 (Figure 2C).
Therefore, although skin elasticity increased in both
experimental and control groups, the changes were faster
in the experimental group.
Changes in skin surface topography: Texture,
wrinkle, and pore
In the experimental group, the values of texture‐related
parameters decreased (indicating improvement in skin
roughness) at Weeks 4 and 12 compared with the
baseline but slowly recovered at Week 24. By contrast,
in
the
control
group,
texture‐related
parameters
increased at Weeks 4 and 12 (indicating worsening skin
roughness) compared with the baseline but slowly
recovered at Week 24. However, there was no statisti-
cally signiﬁcant difference between the two groups
(Figure 3A).
Similarly, among the wrinkle‐related parameters, the
indentation index slightly decreased at Weeks 4 and 12 in
the experimental group compared with the baseline but
slowly recovered at Week 24. On the other hand, in the
control group, the indentation index increased at Weeks
4 and 12 compared with the baseline but slowly
decreased at Week 24. In addition, the maximum depth
increased in both the experimental and control groups at
Week 4 compared with the baseline but slowly decreased
from Week 12. However, there was no statistically
signiﬁcant difference between the two groups at each
follow‐up visit (Figure 3B).
TABLE 1
Patients' baseline demographic characteristics.
Total (n = 32)
Fitzpatrick skin type
II, n (%)
1 (3.13)
III, n (%)
18 (56.25)
IV, n (%)
13 (40.63)
Sex
Male, n (%)
4 (12.5)
Female, n (%)
28 (87.5)
Age
Mean ± SD
38.44 ± 5.39
FIGURE 2
Changes in biophysical measurements. Changes in skin hydration (A), skin elasticity R2 (B), and skin elasticity R8 (C) values after
dermal ﬁller injection using a laser‐induced microjet or needle injection (control). *p < 0.05. AU, arbitrary unit.
4
|
NEEDLESS LASER INJECTOR VERSUS NEEDLE INJECTION


## ページ 5

Among pore‐related parameters, the mean pore area
and mean pore volume decreased at Weeks 4 and 12 in
the experimental group but recovered at Week 24. In the
control group, the mean pore area and mean pore
volume increased at Weeks 4 and 12 but slowly decreased
at Week 24. However, there was no statistically signiﬁ-
cant difference between the two groups at each follow‐up
visit (Figure 3C).
Treatment time and scores for patient's
satisfaction, pain, and degree of recovery
The treatment time was signiﬁcantly shorter with laser‐
induced microjet injection than with manual injection
(361 ± 47.17 vs. 508 ± 93.40 s, p < 0.001) (Figure 4A).
Furthermore,
according
to
the
patients'
subjective
satisfaction evaluation, patient satisfaction was the
greatest at Week 12 in both groups. Although the
differences were not statistically signiﬁcant, the overall
satisfaction scores were greater in the experimental group
than in the control group (Figure 4B).
The average VAS score for pain during treatment was
signiﬁcantly lower in the experimental group than in the
control group (5.39 ± 2.01 vs. 6.48 ± 6.50, p = 0.009). The
average VAS score for erythema after treatment was also
lower in the experimental group than in the control
group but the difference was not statistically signiﬁcant
(0.52 ± 0.77 vs. 0.87 ± 0.81, p = 0.058). The VAS score for
bruising at the injection site was also signiﬁcantly lower
in the experimental group than in the control group
(0.19 ± 0.48 vs. 3.10 ± 2.12, p < 0.001). By contrast, the
VAS score for crust after treatment was signiﬁcantly
higher in the experimental group than in the control
FIGURE 3
Changes in objective measurements in skin aging. Changes in texture‐related parameters (Ra, Rq, Rt) (A), wrinkle‐related
parameters (indentation index and maximum depth) (B), and pore‐related parameters (mean pore area and mean pore volume) (C) after dermal ﬁller
injection using a needleless laser injector or needle injection. *p < 0.05.
FIGURE 4
Average treatment time (A), subject satisfaction score (B), and treatment pain and recovery related visual analog scale (VAS) scores
(C) after dermal ﬁller injection using a needleless laser injector or needle injection. *p < 0.05.
HAN ET AL.
|
5


## ページ 6

group (0.29 ± 0.59 vs. 0.06 ± 0.25, p = 0.035) (Figure 4C).
Figure
5
shows
the
clinical
photographs
of
two
representative cases comparing the degree of recovery
after treatment.
Safety
All patients tolerated the treatment well. One case of
treatment‐related
adverse
events
(delayed
immune
reaction to ﬁller) occurred in the control group but
spontaneously resolved within 5 days without treatment.
DISCUSSION
In this randomized, intraindividually controlled study,
the results indicated that the laser‐induced microjet
injector is a safe and favorable device that can be used
for mesotherapy for skin enhancement and rejuvenation.
A single treatment of PLA/HA ﬁller injection using a
laser‐induced
microjet
injector
resulted
in
similar
improvements in skin hydration and elasticity as an
injection using manual needle injection but with fewer
side
effects,
shorter
treatment
time,
and
shorter
downtime.
The biological mechanism of the intradermal injec-
tion of PLA/HA ﬁllers for skin enhancement and
rejuvenation is well known.12–14 As the main component
of the extracellular matrix, HA draws water into the
matrix, thus creating volume, increasing skin turgor,
lubricating tissue, improving skin elasticity, and alleviat-
ing skin surface roughness.14–17 PLA is a biocompatible,
biodegradable, immunologically inert synthetic polymer
that stimulates collagen by inducing an inﬂammatory
reaction that results in neocollagenesis.18–20 After PLA
injection, collagen production starts within 6−8 weeks,
and type 1 collagen continues to form up to 9−12 months
after treatment.21,22
In both the laser‐induced microjet injection and
control (needle injection) groups, skin hydration and
skin elasticity parameters increased after treatment.
Notably, skin hydration signiﬁcantly increased in the
laser‐induced microjet injection group at 4, 12, and 24
weeks. By contrast, in the control group, the changes
were not statistically signiﬁcant. Similarly, the skin
elasticity parameters signiﬁcantly increased from Week
4 in the laser‐induced microjet injection group, whereas
the changes were signiﬁcant from Week 12 in the control
group. Therefore, we can infer that the skin hydration
and rejuvenating effects were greater and faster when
PLA/HA injection was performed using a laser‐induced
microjet injector. From these results, we can presume
that although the primary source of the antiaging effect
of PLA/HA injection would be the biological effects of
the PLA/HA ﬁller itself, the effect of ﬁller injection can
be maximized using different methods of ﬁller delivery
into the skin. By using a laser‐induced microjet injector,
minute doses of ﬁller can be injected into the skin densely
at an even distribution and at a constant penetration
depth compared with manual injection. Furthermore, the
injection
can
be
performed
at
a
constant
quality
regardless of the clinician's skill, requires less time and
energy for the clinician, and results in less pain and
downtime for patients. These advantages allow for a
more pronounced and stable skin enhancement and
antiaging effect of the ﬁller injection while minimizing
the associated side effects.
Several interesting ﬁndings were noted in the results
of the objective measurements analyzed using the Antera
3D®
camera.
Immediately
after
treatment,
texture‐
related and pore‐related parameters were improved in
the laser‐induced microjet injection group but worsened
in the needle injection group. These results reﬂect the
epidermal damage that occurs during needle injection
compared with during laser‐induced microjet injection.
This was also shown in a previous study using cadavers,
where the punctures from the laser injections were not
visible on the surface of the skin.4 Furthermore, although
the texture‐ and wrinkle‐related parameters were im-
proved in the laser‐induced microjet injection group, the
changes were not statistically signiﬁcant. This may
be because treatment was performed only once in the
current study. After a single treatment session, maximum
FIGURE 5
Clinical photographs on the third day after treatment. There were fewer bruises and erythematous wheals at the injection sites in the
laser‐induced microjet injection group than in the control group.
6
|
NEEDLESS LASER INJECTOR VERSUS NEEDLE INJECTION


## ページ 7

improvement in skin rejuvenation was observed at Week
12 and was slowly reduced afterward, although a
moderate effect was maintained until 24 weeks. There-
fore, to maximize the antiaging effect of PLA/HA ﬁller
injection using a laser‐induced microjet injector, it would
be beneﬁcial to repeat the treatment several times at
intervals of 3 months or less. To conﬁrm this, further
studies that evaluate the effect of repeated treatment with
variable
amounts
of
PLA/HA
injection
would
be
beneﬁcial.
The common side effects associated with dermal ﬁller
injections include pain during treatment, erythema,
bruising, and crust (marks at the injection site) after
treatment. Our results showed that injection with a laser‐
induced microjet injector signiﬁcantly decreased pain,
erythema, and bruising. As shown in Figure 5, 3 days
after the treatment, bruise and erythematous wheals at
the injection sites were pronounced at the manual
injection site (control), whereas no epidermal changes
were observed at the laser‐induced microjet injection site.
On the other hand, crust formation occurred more
frequently when using a laser‐induced microjet injector.
This result may be attributed to the greater number of
valid injections (complete injection of dermal ﬁller at the
targeted depth) with laser‐induced microjet injectors
because such devices allow injections to be performed
more densely and constantly. Furthermore, the ﬁne
crusts were spontaneously removed without leaving any
marks or postinﬂammatory hyperpigmentation after
3−4 days. From this, we can presume that there was no
major vessel damage and thus no inﬂammation due to
vessel damage which can result in postinﬂammatory
hyperpigmentation.
Nodule formation is another frequently reported side
effect of dermal ﬁller injection, which requires special
attention, particularly during ﬁller mesotherapy.23–26 The
risk of this complication can be minimized by using a
laser‐induced microjet injector, which enables the injec-
tion of a precise amount of ﬁller into a precise depth. In
the current study, nodule formation did not occur in
either group possibly because manual ﬁller injection was
performed by a very skilled clinician with abundant
clinical experience. However, nodule formation can
easily occur when an unskilled clinician performs the
procedure or when performing the procedure in more
anatomically vulnerable areas; in these cases, a laser‐
induced
microjet
injector
would
be
advantageous.
Finally, the treatment time was signiﬁcantly shorter
when
a
laser‐induced
microjet
injector
was
used.
Therefore, this novel injector device allows for an
optimal and time‐saving procedure that can maximize
skin enhancement and rejuvenation effects and minimize
the risk of dermal ﬁller injections. The cost of this device
is reasonable (US$ 70,000 for a laser body, US$ 150 for a
disposable nozzle) and thus considering the above‐
mentioned advantages of the use of this device, dermal
ﬁller injection using a laser‐induced microjet injector can
be a competitive treatment method to be used in the
esthetic treatment market.
This study has several limitations. Although this
study was designed to be a split‐face study to minimize
the effects of other variables, a long‐term follow‐up
clinical study using a larger sample size is necessary to
establish
standard
protocols
for
the
use
of
novel
injectors. Furthermore, although multiple biophysical
parameters were evaluated in this study, future studies
that includes clinical evaluation by blinded physician are
needed to support clinical signiﬁcance of this treatment.
Also, given that this study focused on Korean subjects,
further studies with larger populations and subjects with
different skin types and thicknesses are needed to
generalize the results. Last but not least, although the
previous study using cadavers and unpublished previous
data provided histological evidence that the laser‐
induced microjet injector delivered HA/PLA at superﬁ-
cial dermis, further studies with larger sample size that
evaluate histological sections of living human skin using
different laser setting or with various injection materials
are needed to better support the results of our study.
In conclusion, the use of a specialized laser‐based
needleless injector enabled not only the application of a
controlled dose and depth of the ﬁller but also even
distribution, improved clinical efﬁcacy, reduced pain and
side effects, and sufﬁcient time for clinicians to perform
treatment. Therefore, laser‐induced microjet injectors
may be a promising new option for dermal ﬁller injection
for skin enhancement and rejuvenation and may be
useful for pain sensitive or needle‐phobic patients.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the Supporting Project to
Evaluation New Domestic Medical Devices in Hospitals
funded by the Ministry of Health and Welfare (MOHW)
and
Korea
Health
Industry
Development
Institute
(KHIDI).
CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT
The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
ORCID
Hye Sung Han
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-3556-0740
Bo Ri Kim
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-2223-1606
Minjae Kim
http://orcid.org/0000-0003-1309-4539
REFERENCES
1.
Choi SY, Ko EJ, Yoo KH, Han HS, Kim BJ. Effects of
hyaluronic acid injected using the mesogun injector with stamp‐
type microneedle on skin hydration. Dermatol Ther. 2020;
33(6):e13963. https://doi.org/10.1111/dth.13963
2.
Iorizzo M, De Padova MP, Tosti A. Biorejuvenation: theory and
practice. Clin Dermatol. 2008;26(2):177–81. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.clindermatol.2007.09.011
3.
Galadari H, Al Faresi F. Mesotherapy. Skinmed. 2011;9(6):342–3.
4.
Lee JJ, Yi KH, Kim HS, An MH, Seo KK, Chang‐Hun H, et al. A
novel needle‐free microjet drug injector using Er:YAG LASER: a
HAN ET AL.
|
7


## ページ 8

completely new concept of transdermal drug delivery system. Clin
Anat. 2022;35(5):682–5. https://doi.org/10.1002/ca.23892
5.
Schoppink J, Fernandez Rivas D. Jet injectors: perspectives for
small
volume
delivery
with
lasers.
Adv
Drug
Deliv
Rev.
2022;182:114109. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addr.2021.114109
6.
Srinivas C, Somani A, Shashidharan Nair C, Mylswamy T. Spring‐
loaded syringe for multiple rapid injections. J Cutan Aesthet Surg.
2017;10(1):49–50. https://doi.org/10.4103/0974-2077.204584
7.
Seok J, Oh CT, Kwon HJ, Kwon TR, Choi EJ, Choi SY, et al.
Investigating skin penetration depth and shape following needle‐
free injection at different pressures: a cadaveric study. Lasers Surg
Med. 2016;48(6):624–8. https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.22517
8.
Rohilla P, Marston J. Feasibility of laser induced jets in needle
free jet injections. Int J Pharm. 2020;589:119714. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119714
9.
Krizek J, De Goumoëns F, Delrot P, Moser C. Needle‐free
delivery of ﬂuids from compact laser‐based jet injector. Lab Chip.
2020;20(20):3784–91. https://doi.org/10.1039/d0lc00646g
10.
Jang H, Yu H, Lee S, Hur E, Kim Y, Lee SH, et al. Towards
clinical use of a laser‐induced microjet system aimed at reliable
and safe drug delivery. J Biomed Opt. 2014;19(5):058001. https://
doi.org/10.1117/1.JBO.19.5.058001
11.
Seok J, Hong JY, Choi SY, Park KY, Kim BJ. A potential
relationship between skin hydration and stamp‐type microneedle
intradermal hyaluronic acid injection in middle‐aged male face.
J Cosmet Dermatol. 2016;15(4):578–82. https://doi.org/10.1111/jocd.
12244
12.
Reuther T, Bayrhammer J, Kerscher M. Effects of a three‐session skin
rejuvenation treatment using stabilized hyaluronic acid‐based gel of
non‐animal origin on skin elasticity: a pilot study. Arch Dermatol Res.
2010;302(1):37–45. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00403-009-0988-9
13.
Lacarrubba F, Tedeschi A, Nardone B, Micali G. Mesotherapy
for skin rejuvenation: assessment of the subepidermal low‐
echogenic band by ultrasound evaluation with cross‐sectional B‐
mode scanning. Dermatol Ther. 2008;21(Suppl 3):S1–5. https://
doi.org/10.1111/j.1529-8019.2008.00234.x
14.
Kerscher M, Bayrhammer J, Reuther T. Rejuvenating inﬂuence of
a stabilized hyaluronic acid‐based gel of nonanimal origin on
facial skin aging. Dermatol Surg. 2008;34(5):720–6. https://doi.
org/10.1111/j.1524-4725.2008.34176.x
15.
Iranmanesh
B,
Khalili
M,
Mohammadi
S,
Amiri
R,
Aﬂatoonian M. Employing hyaluronic acid‐based mesotherapy
for facial rejuvenation. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2022;21:6605–18.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jocd.15341
16.
Roh NK, Kim MJ, Lee YW, Choe YB, Ahn KJ. A split‐face study
of the effects of a stabilized hyaluronic acid‐based gel of
nonanimal origin for facial skin rejuvenation using a stamp‐type
multineedle injector: a randomized clinical trial. Plast Reconstr
Surg. 2016;137(3):809–16. https://doi.org/10.1097/01.prs.
0000480686.68275.60
17.
Wang F, Garza LA, Kang S, Varani J, Orringer JS, Fisher GJ,
et al. In vivo stimulation of de novo collagen production caused
by
cross‐linked
hyaluronic
acid
dermal
ﬁller
injections
in
photodamaged human skin. Arch Dermatol. 2007;143(2):155–63.
https://doi.org/10.1001/archderm.143.2.155
18.
Athanasiou KA, Niederauer GG, Agrawal CM, Landsman AS.
Applications of biodegradable lactides and glycolides in podiatry.
Clin Podiatr Med Surg. 1995;12(3):475–95.
19.
Hyun MY, Lee Y, No YA, Yoo KH, Kim MN, Hong CK, et al.
Efﬁcacy and safety of injection with poly‐L‐lactic acid compared
with
hyaluronic
acid
for
correction
of
nasolabial
fold:
a
randomized, evaluator‐blinded, comparative study. Clin Exp
Dermatol. 2015;40(2):129–35. https://doi.org/10.1111/ced.12499
20.
Greco T, Antunes M, Yellin S. Injectable ﬁllers for volume
replacement in the aging face. Facial Plast Surg. 2012;28(1):08–20.
https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0032-1305786
21.
Lacombe V. Sculptra: a stimulatory ﬁller. Facial Plast Surg.
2009;25(2):095–9. https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0029-1220648
22.
Gogolewski S, Jovanovic M, Perren SM, Dillon JG, Hughes MK.
Tissue response and in vivo degradation of selected polyhydroxyacids:
polylactides (PLA), poly(3‐hydroxybutyrate) (PHB), and poly(3‐
hydroxybutyrate‐co‐3‐hydroxyvalerate) (PHB/VA). J Biomed Mater
Res. 1993;27(9):1135–48. https://doi.org/10.1002/jbm.820270904
23.
Shahrabi Farahani S, Sexton J, Stone JD, Quinn K, Woo SB. Lip
nodules caused by hyaluronic acid ﬁller injection: report of three
cases. Head Neck Pathol. 2012;6(1):16–20. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12105-011-0304-9
24.
Parulan MAA, Sundar G, Lum JH, Ramachandran U. A case
report on dermal ﬁller‐related periorbital granuloma formation.
Orbit. 2019;38(2):169–72. https://doi.org/10.1080/01676830.2018.
1477806
25.
Thanasarnaksorn
W,
Puttacharoenlarp
P,
Boonchoo
K,
Suwanchinda A. Case report: the role of intradermal micro‐
droplet hyaluronic acid injection in the correction of ﬁller nodules
complication. Dermatol Ther. 2020;33(6):e14315. https://doi.org/
10.1111/dth.14315
26.
Bachmann F, Erdmann R, Hartmann V, Wiest L, Rzany B. The
spectrum of adverse reactions after treatment with injectable ﬁllers
in the glabellar region: results from the Injectable Filler Safety
Study. Dermatol Surg. 2009;35(Suppl 2):1629–34. https://doi.org/
10.1111/j.1524-4725.2009.01341.x
SUPPORTING INFORMATION
Additional supporting information can be found online
in the Supporting Information section at the end of this
article.
How to cite this article: Han HS, Kim BR, Kim M,
Na J‐I, Seo SB, Huh C‐H, et al. Needleless laser
injector versus needle injection for skin
enhancement and rejuvenation effect of dermal
ﬁller. Lasers Surg Med. 2023;1–8.
https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.23719
8
|
NEEDLESS LASER INJECTOR VERSUS NEEDLE INJECTION

